We've selected experimental and
control variables.
And the next step, would be to match
the treatment and control groups.
however, matching is dependent
upon the type of experiment, so
we'll skip the topic here, and
discuss in detail in the later lessons.
The last thing to do, is to decide
on how long to run the test?
Like many things in AB analysis,
there is no set rule for
how long an experiment needs to run.
The answer really has to do
with what you are testing.
An experiment should run for
at least one cycle for
whatever you're trying to observe.
This is pretty vague, so
let's take a look at some examples.
Amazon wants to know if changing
the layout of their homepage
will increase the percentage of people
that click on an advertisement.
Shoppers are randomly sent
to one of two page layouts,
the treatment and the control.
How long should this experiment run?
If Amazon knew that the majority
of their customers shopped on
their site once a week, then a week
would represent a full cycle.
And the experiment should run for
a week.
What could happen if they didn't run for
a full cycle?
Amazon get so many visits a day,
that they could theoretically get a very
large amount of data for
an experiment in the few hours.
What we're really trying to
find out is whether or not.
The group of people is representative of
the population of all of their shoppers.
If they ran the experiment in
the middle of the day for two hours,
they may not have a good representation
of people who work during the day,
and might have skewed the results.
Having a full cycle of data reduces the
chance of having bias in the responses.
However, a full cycle is
not always possible for
the length of an experiment.
The life of a cycle is not always known.
The analysts and business experts
must use their best judges when
they're on a time frame that is
long enough to not be biased.
But also fits within the time
constraints of the business needs.
The amount of time that the experiment
is going to run is important to nail
down as early as
possible in the process.
Because that'll addicted how much past
data you need to set up the experiment?
To do the analysis of an experiment, an
equal amount of past data is needed for
baseline comparison as
the length of the experiment.